$Id: README,v 1.2 2002/01/16 22:10:00 greve Exp $

Spamass-Milter, a small
 - SpamAssassin Sendmail Mail Filter (Milter) Plugin 
-----------------------------------------------------

For information about Sendmail or SpamAssassin, please see 
	http://www.sendmail.org
	http://www.spamassassin.org


IMPORTANT NOTICE:
*****************
 THIS PROGRAM IS STILL MORE OR LESS A HACK. IT WORKS FOR ME, BUT IT
 MIGHT NOT WORK FOR YOU - NOT WITHOUT SOME MODIFICATIONS, THAT IS. I
 AM NOT AWARE OF ANY BUGS RIGHT NOW. THAT DOES NOT MEAN THE PROGRAM
 DOESN'T HAVE BUGS. IN FACT CHANCES ARE GOOD THAT IT DOES CONTAIN BUGS
 I DIDN'T FIND.


Platform note:
--------------

I built and used it on Debian GNU/Linux (woody). It worked fine there
and should for you (given that you have the appropriate packages
installed). It should work on other distributions and other Un*x
derivates - I will not support it on them, though.


Maintainer wanted:
------------------

In fact I don't have a lot of time to support this program, so if
anyone else wants to start doing so, please let me know.


Installation instructions:
--------------------------

You need to have sendmail + sendmail libmilter (available since
version 8.11, afaik, 8.12.+ recommended) installed. Depending on your
distribution you may need to recompile sendmail for this. 

Under Debian, "apt-get install libmilter-dev" should do the trick.

For more information, please refer to http://www.sendmail.org.

You will need to have SpamAssassin spamc & spamd installed &
configured.

BEFORE INSTALLING & TRYING TO USE THIS PROGRAM, PLEASE MAKE SURE THAT
SPAMC/SPAMD DOES EXACTLY WHAT YOU WANT; OTHERWISE YOU MIGHT RISK
LOSING MAIL.

Theoretically, "./configure ; make ; make install" (see INSTALL)
should do the trick. If it doesn't, you may be missing something or
the configuration may not be working for you. 


Configuration:
--------------

In contrib, you'll find a startup-script that should work almost out
of the box under Debian. Just modify the execution path to where you
put the spamass-milter binary and set the path of the socket to what
you want to use. YOU WILL MOST LIKELY HAVE TO EDIT THE VARIABLES ON
TOP OF THIS FILE.

Then start the daemon via /etc/init.d/spamass-milter start and make
sure it didn't crash/terminate immediately. If it does, there should
usually be syslog output. 

If you want to make this happen automatically, you can use the
update-rc.d command for this under Debian.


Now you need to make sendmail use the plugin. I always recommend
configuring sendmail through m4 & the sendmail.mc files. In this case
adding the line

INPUT_MAIL_FILTER(`spamassassin', `S=local:/var/run/sendmail/spamass.sock, F=, T=C:15m;S:4m;R:4m;E:10m')

should do the trick. Of course you need to modify the path of the
socket if you put another one into the startup script. The timeouts
have been increased somewhat because SpamAssassin may chew on it for a
little while on a slow machine.

Now recreate sendmail.cf, restart sendmail and experiment around a bit
with the setup to make sure it is working.


Q: Does this work for UUCP?

Yes, it does. At least for me. :-)


If you want, you might configure procmail to filter out the spam into
a separate mailbox or do other fancy things. The SpamAssassin homepage
will tell you more about it.

That should be it. Have fun watching the spam drip off your box. :)
